
Copyright (C) 2002 Atomic Object LLC
All Rights Reserved.

http://atomicobject.com/
info@atomicobject.com


The code here may be used/distributed under the terms of the standard
XFree86 license.

VMWareFB OpenStep Display Driver for VMWare
-------------------------------------------

 - Overview
 - Known Issues
 - Installation
 - Building the Source


Overview
--------

VMWareFB is an OpenStep display driver written to support the virtual
display hardware in VMWare. It has been tested with VMWare Workstation
3.0 on Linux, Windows 2000 and Windows XP.

The driver works very well on Linux, especially in full screen mode.
There are some problems with initialization of the device on Windows XP,
but once running, it seems very stable.

Support for other versions of VMWare is unknown. Please report any 
experiences with the Express and Server versions.


DISCLAIMER: This is an initial release of a driver that still has some
problems, especially when running on a Windows host. We can not claim
that this driver will work well or at all on your computer. We
developed this driver for the specific purpose of running a few
applications, and haven't extensively tested it with various software
or hardware configurations

All we can say is that it works fine for what we need.

Known Issues
------------

 - Panics on startup. Occasionally, usually after first installing
   the driver, OpenStep will crash with a panic just after the driver
   finishes initializing. The specific crash is usually a problem
   with "pmap_remove_range 2". These crashes have rarely occurred on
   Linux or Windows 2000. On Windows XP the crashes happen _very_ often
   (every cold power on). After one or two reboots it does work,
   even on XP.

   Once booted up OpenStep seems to run just fine. It is recommended
   that you use the Suspend and Resume to start and stop the VM.
   
 - No Acceleration. This driver does not use the command FIFO in the
   VMWare device to accelerate updates of the screen. On Windows, and in
   a window on Linux uses a "trace" mode in VMWare to update the
   display. This method is inherently slow and occasionally leaves bits
   of graphical garbage on the screen which do get cleaned up and don't
   affect operation of the virtual machine. But performance is generally
   acceptable.

   On Linux in fullscreen mode updates go directly to the video hardware,
   and these performance and visual problems don't happen.

-  Limitations on host color depth. OpenStep (or at least this driver)
   can only handle 12/16, 15/16 or 24/32 depth/bits-per-pixel. Because
   the VMWare display must run at the same depth as the host, this 
   limitation may require you to change the display properties of the
   host. On Linux, this usually involves running X at 15 or 24 bpp.
   On Windows, 32 and 15 depth should always work, 24 or 16 depth might, 
   depending on the specific video hardware (whether 24bpp is actually
   3 bytes per pixel or 4, and if 16 uses a 555 or 565 color weight).

   The driver will give up if it finds itself on an unsupported depth,
   and the Default VGA driver will be used. The reason will be logged.

   8-bit pseudocolor mode is currently unsupported.

Installation
------------

The VMWare Display Driver installs just like any other OpenStep
display driver. The quick-start method is:

 1. Open /NextAdmin/Configure.app and remove the current display driver.
    Save. Confirm the warnings. Quit.
 2. Double-click on VMWareFB.config, and confirm the installation
    (or update) of the driver.
 3. Select the Display tab. The Add Display Devices... panel should pop
    up automatically (if not, click Add). "VMWare Display Adapter"
    should automatically be detected. Click Add.
 4. Click Select to choose your display resolution. All the modes
    are shown as 32-bit depth, but the actual depth used will depend
    on the host system on which VMWare is running. The driver has only
    been successfully tested at a maximum of 1280x1024x32bpp. Higher
    resolutions should work, though.
 5. Save and reboot. YOU MAY NEED TO REBOOT TWO OR THREE TIMES IF
    OPENSTEP CRASHES. Let it reboot, rather than powering off and
    on the virtual machine when it crashes. When it eventually boots
    successfully, it should be stable.

Building the Source
-------------------

VMWareFB can be built using Project Builder on NextStep 3.3. _It will
NOT compile on OpenStep!_ Make sure to build for a i386 architecture
if compiling on a non-Intel architecture.

-- 
$Id$
